Nikhil Maddirala (00:10)
Hey, welcome to the Art and Science of AI, a podcast about the science of how AI works and the art of using AI to reimagine your life, business, and society.

I'm Nikhil Madhiraalab, I'm one of your co -hosts. I'm an AI product manager and I love helping people learn about AI.

Piyush (00:29)
I'm Piyush, your other co -host. I'm a sales executive and I love learning about AI. And we're two best friends who love talking about AI essentially. So Nikhil, in the last episode, we took a journey towards becoming a zero, like a hero from a zero on AI, right? And you shared some amazing insights on how we can use prompts in some creative ways. I had my mind blown actually when I learned about...

how you can build custom GPTs and some powerful prompting techniques. In fact, I discovered that even in Gemini, so I told you, right, like I use a bunch of different platforms. I use ChatGPD, I use Perplexity, I use Gemini. In Gemini, it's called GEMS. Did you know that? The custom GPT version. So I've been using a lot of that. So I mean, I love it. Like the discussions that we're having, they're already helping me improve my productivity based on just the new things that I'm learning.

Nikhil Maddirala (01:11)
Mm -hmm.

yeah, yeah.

Maybe let's like recap a little bit what we talked about in the last episode because this is kind of a continuation of that. So Yeah, we basically talked about how to get started with using AI If you are currently not using it and we talked about identifying the places the workflows where AI would be beneficial for you finding tasks that you do repetitively or that take a long time to do or anywhere where you think AI could help you and Then we talked about how to use just basic

Piyush (01:32)
Yeah, actually, that'll be helpful. Yeah, you want to do that?

Nikhil Maddirala (01:58)
chatbot interfaces like chatgpt to help you with your tasks like writing emails or doing research about companies and things like that. And we talked about just like basic usage of chatgpt and then we got into some advanced topics like how to give it a custom prompt instruction to get better responses and then we talked about how to think step by step how to get chatgpt to give you better responses by giving it

more examples of the kind of thing you're looking for. It was called few shot prompting. And then we looked into some advanced things like creating a custom GPT that you can use for repeatable workflows that you're doing again and again, where you can give it specific instructions and give it a role and give it some knowledge. So that's where we got to last time. We talked about how you can use the chatbot interface of chat GPT or similar ones like Gemini or Claude to help you with your life.

Piyush (02:53)
Yeah, actually based on the insights that you shared, I started using, well, not few shots, but one shot, which is better than no shot, right? Like what was the name that we came up with? Like a lazy shot, lazy prompting. And I did notice a considerable increase in the quality of the output, sorry, by just adding one example of what I want my output to look like. So.

Nikhil Maddirala (03:01)
Mm -hmm Zero lazy prompting. Yeah

Hmm.

Piyush (03:20)
Yeah, perhaps maybe I should try a few shots as well, just based on the improvement that I've seen already. So that's been great. But the other thing, the thing that we ended at and what hopefully we can like deep dive into today is just I'm so curious to learn more about just how we can keep making this more advanced and like find more sophisticated ways of automating a lot of the boring, annoying tasks that we have to do, but important tasks.

Nikhil Maddirala (03:48)
Yeah.

Piyush (03:49)
Yeah, and then let the AI do it, basically.

Nikhil Maddirala (03:52)
Yeah, yeah, I think that's a good next step. So let's talk about first automation and API's, which is the way in which we do this automation. Maybe before we get into that, let's think about like why we would want to automate something and what that automation does for us. So if you're, if you don't have automation, if your interaction with AI is just limited to you using the chat interface and having chats with AI and getting out.

That's pretty limited. It's limited by your time and how much time you can put into it. But imagine, like forget about AI, imagine you had a real life assistant. Usually when you talk to your assistant, you would probably assign them a task and then you would expect that, okay, after your conversation, they'll go do that task on their own without you. And then next time you talk to them, the task would be completed and you will have some output of that task. So that's not possible right now.

with using chat GPT. Like the only help you're getting from it is when you're talking to it and having these conversations. So it's not able to do things in the background for you. That's one of the limitations of chat GPT. So automation can help with that. If for example, you have a task like suppose every day you, we talked about your sales example, right?

Piyush (04:58)
Hmm.

Nikhil Maddirala (05:16)
What you're doing is you get a list of new clients and then you have to do some research about those clients and get some information. So the way you're doing it is you open up the chat GPT interface, we use this custom GPT you created and you ask it, you say, here are my new clients, do this research and get this info from me and you wait there while it does that research and gives you this info and then you copy this info into your document or wherever you want it. Yeah.

Piyush (05:40)
and then rinse and repeat for every single one of the lines.

Nikhil Maddirala (05:42)
But imagine if you could just wake up in the morning and it automatically is like, hey, I analyzed your client list and here's all the information you need to be better prepared for your day ahead.

Piyush (05:53)
That's why I'm so excited. It sounds like that is actually possible. I don't know how to do it, but I'm so excited. Perhaps we can figure out a way to do exactly that.

Nikhil Maddirala (05:59)
Yeah, so that's the benefit of automation. We'll talk and I have an exact demo prepared for you for exactly how to solve this problem. But I kind of just want to motivate it a little. So talking about why we need automation. So one is this so that tasks can be done in the background for you and you're not constrained by how much time you spend on it. And the second thing is just scaling. Like you can do like.

Piyush (06:07)
Really?

Wow.

Nikhil Maddirala (06:26)
in this example of a company research task, you can have a chat back and forth and do this for a handful of companies. But imagine if you say that I want to create something like this for my whole company to use across all clients everywhere. There are like, say hundreds of thousands or millions of potential companies to research. That's not possible for like you to do as a human being. So this is the entire point of software and applications in general, even without AI is to automate.

Piyush (06:43)
If not millions, yeah. Yeah.

Nikhil Maddirala (06:55)
stuff that we cannot, like as humans, like easily automate. So that's one of the main benefits. So yeah, hopefully that's sufficient motivation for thinking about why you might want to like automate some of your. So first, obviously start figuring out what you can use AI for. That's what we talked about in the last episode and start using the user interface, the chat GPT application and try to get value out of that.

But once you find some workflow where you're like, okay, this is adding a lot of value to me and helping me a lot, but I need to do it repeatedly, that's when you can think about like auto, when you need to do it repeatedly or at a large scale, then you should probably think about automating it.

Piyush (07:39)
That makes sense. Yeah, I mean, that makes a lot of sense. You mentioned APIs. Would it be possible for you to also, like I know what APIs are, but I feel like I don't have a very good in -depth understanding of exactly how they help. Like, I don't know, maybe give an overview of what APIs even are before we jump into how we can leverage it.

Nikhil Maddirala (07:59)
Yeah, sure. So an API stands for Application Programming Interface. And this is in contrast to often a UI. UI stands for user interface. So usually modern applications, whenever they're developed, they will have two interfaces for being able to interface with the app. One is a UI, that's a user interface.

And the second is an API, that's an application programming interface. So think about it, the distinction is basically, if you as a user wants to interact with the application, use the user interface, but if you have another application or a program or an automation script that wants to interact with the application, it uses the API, the application programming interface. Because suppose I have, in this case, let's say we're developing a program.

that gets sales insights to help you with your work and productivity. So my sales insights program is not a human. So it's not good at doing human things like opening up an app, like it doesn't have a phone. And yeah, it's not the way in which it would interact with any other program is not through the user interface. It's not gonna open up an application and log in and type something in.

So there's a better way for programs to talk to each other and that is through API. So basically what in the back end, what's actually happening when you use a user interface, you type something into the chat box and then you press a button, you press send or you hit enter. But what's happening on the back end is that's triggering some program that's running. So chat GPT, OpenAI is running a program. It's taking that text you gave it as an input.

and the U pressed return, that's the input and it's running some program and generating some output and then it's displaying that output on your screen. So for a user, this is a convenient way of interacting with applications because you have eyes, you have hands and we use these user interfaces, interfaces. But if you were a program, this like, you know, the screen and the keyboard and stuff is not relevant to you. So my program, my sales program will just...

the chat GPT's backend program automatically. So it'll send its input and then chat GPT will recognize that input. It didn't get the input from the keyboard and from the user, it got it from the program, but it will then trigger the same process and then generate the output. And then instead of showing that output on your laptop screen or your mobile screen, wherever you're using it, it will send that output directly back to the application and the application can decide.

what it wants to do with that output. So it's like API is the language in which applications talk to each other. And UI is kind of like the language or interface that humans use to interact with computer applications.

Piyush (10:58)
Right.

Right. OK, I mean, by the way, that's a very insightful way of understanding APIs. Yeah, like just the difference or contrasting between UI and APIs. So if I take the same framework for this application, which will dramatically actually improve my productivity. So instead of me going to chat GPT and typing a prompt for each company,

Nikhil Maddirala (11:31)
Mm -hmm.

Piyush (11:32)
Let's say I wanted to research for like a book of 10 clients that I've just got. So I will repeat this task 10 times. I'll enter a prompt with, maybe I can automate the template of the prompt, but I still have to enter stuff 10 times and get the output and copy paste it into some document. That stuff can be handled by an API, right? Like the API will make a repeated call, I suppose, to chat GPT for me. So like that's a good way for it. So the API is in the backend using the UI for me instead of me using.

Nikhil Maddirala (11:36)
Mm -hmm.

Mm -hmm.

Yes.

Piyush (12:01)
the UI. That's one way of understanding it in the framework that you provide.

Nikhil Maddirala (12:02)
Yeah, absolutely. Yeah. Or you can think about it as behind the UI and the API, there's some common, actually it's the reverse. What's usually happening is most modern applications are developed as API first. That means they develop the API and then they develop the UI on top of that. And what the UI is doing is it's just calling the API. Yeah. So.

Piyush (12:24)
interesting. OK, OK. So what you're saying is most modern applications are already thinking through, well, the UI is an afterthought. They're like, we want to be useful to other programs, but the UI is an afterthought. Is that the right way of thinking?

Nikhil Maddirala (12:41)
It's not like an afterthought, but it's just a good programming practice to do it API first so that there's consistency between your UI and the API. So everything that a user can do through the user interface, other applications can also do through the API. So a lot of it depends on like your company strategy, business strategy, all of that. Maybe you don't even want, there was a famous example.

Twitter used to be very API friendly in its early days and people use those APIs to develop various third party applications for reading tweets, following other people, and then their business strategy changed and they realized that we actually don't want to support API access. So they've closed that off and that means the only way to use Twitter is through the Twitter UI because they're like, we don't want people accessing.

this in any other way. And for their business strategy, it makes sense because when you open the app, you see it, you also see the ads and everything else they want to show you. So it depends. And yeah, a lot of big companies don't provide API, especially consumer facing companies do not provide API access because that negates the...

their business value. Like we talked about this in the Apple intelligence episode, like if Instagram provided API access for me to go and get all the photos that my friends are posting, that's gonna be harmful to Instagram's business model because I'm not then gonna use the app and see the ads and see the other stuff they wanna show me.

Piyush (13:57)
All right.

Yeah, that's interesting, actually. Now, I'm reflecting back. So the only social media I use, I suppose, if it can be called a social media, is Reddit. And I used to use a custom app for Reddit called Boost. It's for Android. And I used to love that app. I paid for a lifetime subscription for it. It was so good. And I believe sometime last year, Reddit decided to make the API access very, very expensive, dramatically expensive.

Nikhil Maddirala (14:23)
Mm -hmm.

Mm -hmm.

Piyush (14:42)
And all of these third party apps just completely went out of business. Because I remember like, Boos shared a message with me. He's like, hey, we love Reddit. We want to make this happen, but we just can't afford it. And I guess I'm not thinking back on it based on what you said. And I suppose it was the same use case for Reddit as well. The reason I love Boos is it would just remove all the ads. And it's not in Reddit's best interest for that to happen. So I guess Reddit.

Nikhil Maddirala (15:01)
Yeah.

Exactly, yeah, so this was a famous example. I also love reddit I'm an iPhone user and I used to use an app called Apollo which was a really good reddit client and actually he's the one that started this whole controversy he blew it up on social media the Developer of Apollo, but it just didn't make sense Yeah, that's a company that struggled honestly for a long time they

Piyush (15:17)
Hmm.

All the explicit is used towards you slash spez.

Nikhil Maddirala (15:30)
are unable to figure out the right business model for how to make money, even though they're so popular. So, I mean, I don't know, they maybe could have handled it better, but I kind of don't blame them. They're having a hard time. So yeah, they realize that, look, if a bunch of users are just getting our data and viewing it through third -party apps and they don't see our ads or anything, we don't make money. And secondly, also they've realized that through the API, a lot of these AI language models are getting that data to train.

their models and make them better and reddit thinks that they should be compensated and they should be able to monetize that.

Piyush (16:05)
Actually, aren't they, do they not have a licensing deal now? I believe they had a licensing deal recently with Google and a bunch of other search engines where like search engines got access to their API. In fact, one of my most popular use, the reason I pay $20 to Perplexity is one, because I want access to cloud three through perplexity. And I didn't want to pay Anthropic separately is they have a feature. I don't know if you've used it where you can selectively search within the Reddit ecosystem. So you can either do a web search or Reddit search.

Nikhil Maddirala (16:11)
Yeah.

Piyush (16:35)
And honestly, I love searching on Reddit. Like I feel like it's one of the last most authentic places left on the Internet and where you can get unbiased reviews. So when I had my baby girl, I had to do a lot of research on like what kind of baby gear to buy. And I did a lot of research on YouTube, Google search. I just wasn't feeling like I was getting true, honest opinions. So I would mostly go to Reddit and repeat a lot of the searching, look through all the forums. But with this option, now my Reddit searching has become so amazing because all I do is I select Reddit in perplexity.

Nikhil Maddirala (16:53)
Mm -hmm.

Piyush (17:04)
And I'll type like, what is the best baby stroller or what is the best baby X care or Y care. And it will do all of that. So I think it's also a good example of using API. Do you think like, what do you think? Do you have an intuition for what that architecture looks like? Is it some call that goes to API and then the rag in that we discussed earlier?

Nikhil Maddirala (17:21)
No, in this case, there's another method that you can use. It's called web crawling and that's the way in which a lot of companies get data that's publicly available. So I can write a program that's called a web crawler and what it does is it opens up a website and it

Piyush (17:28)
Mm.

Nikhil Maddirala (17:41)
copies all the content of that website into my database and then it clicks on all the links in that content and then it copies that data. So in that case, you don't need an API for something that is on the open web. Open web means that any web browser, if they just know the address, can access that because that is basically an HTML file that's on the open internet and anyone can access that. That doesn't require...

Piyush (18:09)
I thought Reddit was preventing websites from crawling through these crawler prevention robots. Do you know how that works? robots .txt.

Nikhil Maddirala (18:17)
Yes, so this is like a really complex area right now. It's not clear what the legal frameworks are for this. So yeah, right now the only way you can prevent someone crawling your website is you just have to write a message saying, please don't crawl my website. That's essentially...

Piyush (18:34)
people don't end up honoring it. It's an honor based.

Nikhil Maddirala (18:36)
And yeah, it's an honor based system. I'm not sure what the legal frameworks are for protecting those rights. It's a gray area because you could also argue that, well, this is publicly available data and anyone can view it. So why can't I use it for my AI? OpenAI got into trouble for that. Like recently or a few months ago, they announced this model called Sora, which does video generation. And then their CTO was asked a question, okay, where does the training data for this come from? And she kept repeating the phrase,

Piyush (18:47)
Right.

Yeah. Yeah.

This is a reaction. If you can see visually, I'm trying to replicate it.

Nikhil Maddirala (19:06)
Yeah, well she first kept repeating the phrase, we use publicly available data. And then the interviewer kept saying, what does that mean? What is publicly available data? For example, does that include YouTube? And then she made that reaction that you just did.

Piyush (19:20)
Yeah. I thought that the way the Reddit searches work was like, you know how we discussed the rag architecture retrieval augmented generation, that whenever I search something with the Reddit as the focus, it would use, it would retrieve a bunch of the most relevant posts from Reddit, append that into the prompt, and then presents the results based on that. But I guess, I mean, what?

Nikhil Maddirala (19:45)
Yes, that's actually exactly how it works. I'm just saying how does it get the content of those posts that's through web crawling?

Piyush (19:52)
Okay, okay, got it, got it, right.

Nikhil Maddirala (19:52)
Yeah, so through web crawling it gets the con like first it does a Google search and from Google it will get these links. It'll say so you'll do a Google search and you'll say here's my search query. What Google returns to you is a list of links to other websites that have this information. So then to get the content of that website you have to crawl that website. So you have to simulate a program that's clicking on that link and then downloading the information that's called web crawling.

Piyush (20:07)
Right.

Right.

Right.

So it's good that we're discussing all this because you think that something similar is happening when I do research for the company. So for example, let's say I just got a new company that I have to work with, right? For any salesperson, the first thing that happens is they'll get a list of what's called NAL, or Named Account List, is like, all right, here's your customer that you have to work with, and I guess you have to sell whatever you're selling.

Nikhil Maddirala (20:22)
Ahem.

Mm -hmm.

Piyush (20:47)
And then when I have this template that I use to research these companies, like, is that what's happening? Like in the background, like there's a web crawl that happens, like a Google search that happens in the background and it'll go through all the most relevant leg. Yeah. Are you.

Nikhil Maddirala (20:54)
Ahem.

You mean when you use perplexity? Yeah, that's exactly what's happening. When you use perplexity, it uses Google search to get the links and then it crawls those websites to get the results, to get the content of those links. And actually perplexity recently I was reading has been accused of being unethical here and apparently they're ignoring many websites requests to not crawl their websites and they're crawling them anyway.

Piyush (21:24)
Yeah, the CEO, the CEO, I think his name is Arvind Srinivas. He keeps shitting on Google. But the funny thing is, is they use Google's search results ranking. Like the core thing that their business is dependent on is provided by Google. And like I've seen a bunch of podcasts by him and he keeps like shitting on Google, like Google 10 blue links and this and that. I'm like, Hey, you're using Google to retrieve all the results.

Nikhil Maddirala (21:30)
Ehem.

Hmm.

Piyush (21:50)
and get them ranked, and that's very hard, and Google's been doing that for the last 20 years.

Nikhil Maddirala (21:53)
Yeah. Yeah. But I think this goes back to the question of where does the value lie? We talked about there's always a value chain for any product that you're using. And is the value in one of the component parts of it or is the value in the entire package that he's putting together? And probably he's trying to argue that, yes, this Google thing is important, but it's just, like, you know, if I sell a candy bar to you, a chocolate bar, let's say, sugar is a key ingredient there.

Piyush (22:17)
Yeah.

Nikhil Maddirala (22:23)
But like sugar is kind of a commodity. So I, you know, I can say people are buying my chocolate bar.

Piyush (22:28)
I see your point. I see where you're heading. Although in this case, I would argue that it's not a commodity because the ranking. So like from what I understood about rag or that whole architecture, it's because, I mean, you're, you're searching the open web, which is like billions, if not trillions of like web links, right? The ability to rank order the top 10 or the top hundred is actually very, very hard. And like, that's something that Google has been trying to perfect for the last 20 years. So.

I would argue that in this case, it's not the commodity. Because let's say Google, for example, removed access. That's one way I like to think about it, is the counterfactual of this. Let's say Google pulled access to this ranking API or whatever they use, right? Would perplexity still work as well? Like in this case, in your sugar example, and maybe they'll switch over to some other sugar render because it's a commodity. But if Google were to pull access to this ranking algorithm that perplexity uses,

then they would be relying on Bing or some other search engine. And there's a reason why Google's the dominant player, right? Because their rankings are better.

Nikhil Maddirala (23:30)
Yeah, I mean, I don't know too much about the search space. I think though recently there have been a lot of advancements in other search engines and a lot of people say that look, the Bing search results or other search results are almost as good as Google's and like the value is now coming on like what differentiation I can provide on top of the search results. How do I make that more contextual to users? How do I use that to answer? So it's unclear. We don't know at this point. Yes, right now Google is still.

Piyush (23:56)
That makes sense.

Nikhil Maddirala (23:59)
I would say the best search engine, but in the world of AI search, my hypothesis is that Google will build that they're already building it in and I think they will. Yeah.

Piyush (24:07)
It's there, it's called AI overviews. It's just not as sophisticated as perplexity and there's some reason, because we both work in the ad world, right? We understand that there's some obligations, why it's not. You mentioned one term, value chain. I think it's the second or third time that you mentioned it and I think this is a great framework to look at it. So let's park that hot and maybe let's spend like a dedicated episode. Just, I want to understand, I want to do a demo. Yeah, because I...

Nikhil Maddirala (24:16)
Yeah.

We've always talked about this, yeah, but I think we keep getting sucked into this conversation.

Piyush (24:33)
This is the second or third time, and I find it very interesting. I feel like you're onto something, or at least I think it's a great framework. So maybe we can just.

Nikhil Maddirala (24:38)
We talked about it in the context of Apple intelligence where I think it's important where what Apple is trying to do is provide an AI layer on top of all other applications. And so Apple is like perplexity in that case, but they're saying all your other applications will provide actions and data that are in the backend of this. And then you as a user will interact with this. And so they're trying to capture more of the value chain and make the other apps into kind of backend commodities. So.

This is something everyone always tries to do, is they want to, when you have a service that relies on other services, it's in your interest to make your package the primary thing that users care about.

Piyush (25:08)
Yeah.

Actually, now, as you're talking about it, yeah, you're so right. I'm remembering, I believe the blockchain people used to complain a lot about the big tech companies like Google and the Facebooks. And I think they phrased their term called the fact protocol theory. Do you know what that is? And it was the same idea that when internet 2 .0 came about, which is the Googles and the Facebooks, what they did was they kind of used the underlying protocols like a...

Nikhil Maddirala (25:40)
No.

Piyush (25:51)
TCP IP or the IP, like, you know, just the internet protocols and they created a layer of value on top of it. However, this layer should have been another protocol where other companies should have been built. And the reason they call it fat, I may not be explaining it in the best way possible, but the idea is very similar to what you were talking about is Google and Facebook. What they ended up doing is they accrued all the value to themselves. Hence the name fat protocol. Cause like,

Nikhil Maddirala (26:03)
Hmm

Hmm.

Piyush (26:21)
No one makes money on TCP IP. It's just a free protocol for everyone to use. That's what maybe search should have been, is that Google should just have been a protocol that other people use, and the value should have been accrued to those other businesses. But what Google and Facebook ended up doing is accruing all the value to themselves, and hence the name FAT Protocol. So to your point that it's not a new thing, and everyone's been trying to do it. So I guess that makes sense. So anyways, I don't want to digress. I don't want to talk about this value chain business today, because when I'm.

Nikhil Maddirala (26:37)
Hmm.

Piyush (26:49)
Really, really, I've been so excited about this discussion is because if we can create this sales assistant or whatever, I personally stand to gain a lot from it. And I imagine other salespeople would as well. So can we maybe talk about...

Nikhil Maddirala (27:03)
Yeah, okay, so let's jump into that and as we do it, let's try to think about how this could be also relevant to other people who have other workflows and problems that they're trying to solve. So let's go into yours first. The last thing before we jump into your workflow is, or actually let's talk about your workflow and then we'll talk about how to implement it in a program or solution. I know we talked about it earlier this week.

and you explained your workflow to me, like a simplified version of it is that you get a new book of clients, so you work in sales and you get new clients, and your goal or your process, I mean, your ultimate goal is that you want to convert these new accounts into customers of yours, that's your ultimate goal, but the way in which you get there is first you do some research about the companies for you to understand the companies better and in a general sense,

and then you try to get some unique insights about the company that are relevant to your situation, like about what their online search presence looked like and things like that. And then you use the output of this research to inform conversations that you're gonna have with your client so that you can be more informed and provide value to them so that they're more likely to like you and wanna work with you.

Piyush (28:32)
Yeah, that's beautifully summarized. That's exactly it. It's just to be like, I mean, the enterprise sales business is so difficult, right? It's so competitive. So how do you stand out? And I think the best way to stand out is to be genuinely a trusted advisor and someone who brings interesting insights to the end customer. And the only way to do it is to do it authentically, which is to get a good understanding of.

Nikhil Maddirala (28:35)
Ahem.

Piyush (29:00)
what their business is, what their business model is, how they make money, what they sell. So like do a lot of research on what this company is all about. And only then will you be able to truly help them with achieving their business goals.

Nikhil Maddirala (29:10)
Yeah. So there are different ways in which we could build an AI solution that does this process that you described. We could have like an end -to -end solution that says something like, well, just go generate like a presentation or a meeting script for me to go have a conversation with my client. Cause that's the end -to -end goal you have, right? For the purposes of this demo, we're going to look at just.

Piyush (29:34)
Can we, I wasn't even thinking about that. What I was thinking is something more basic. It's like, I'll give you a list of customers and produce like a bunch of one -sheeters with the research report or something. But you would, okay. But it's interesting. What you're saying is you can go one level up in the level of abstraction and wow. Okay. Maybe you'll just replace me one day. No puke required. My boss generates.

Nikhil Maddirala (29:45)
Yeah, that's where we're going to start.

Yes, you can. So, well, I think it won't replace you, but it'll be like, it'll make your job easier and you don't have to spend a bunch of time going and doing research. Instead, you can spend time on building those relationships with the clients and more high value work. So I think that's kind of the point of AI is to free up.

Piyush (30:03)
Mm -mm.

Right.

Nikhil Maddirala (30:17)
yourself from doing mundane and boring things, things that AI can do automatically, and then you focus on more higher value things. So you then focus on building a relationship with your client. That's probably something really important. AI can't do that right now.

Piyush (30:33)
Well, that's what I'm betting on, that AI can form relationships. And that's why I'm betting my career on the sales career, because everything else seems to be up for grabs.

Nikhil Maddirala (30:42)
Okay, so let's jump into this. Before, we can actually do a demo of how to make a program that can automate this sales insight generation for you. We need to talk about how to work with APIs.

So you need to have some programming knowledge. There are two approaches. The classic approach is you need to write a computer program that uses those APIs and performs these actions for you. That's the basic way and that's the approach I'm gonna demonstrate today. But increasingly over the past, I would say like five to 10 years, there's been a rise of what's called no code platforms, which try to abstract this process of writing code and make it more user -friendly.

are friendly for people to have drag and drop interfaces to connect different APIs to each other and do things. Unfortunately, they're not that great right now, the no code solutions. Maybe they'll get better in future. And if they do, we could explore those in more detail. But I think this points to the importance of everyone learning some basic programming, especially because of the amount of value that you can get from AI today just by having basic programming.

being able to write basic AI scripts for yourself, there's a ton of value that you can get from that. And now is like really the best time. It's so easy if you want to learn programming. There's so much free content and courses out there online. I highly encourage everyone listening to this podcast. If you have any interest in AI, think about learning some basic programming.

Piyush (32:17)
Would you like to recommend maybe one or two such courses that you have found to be very helpful?

Nikhil Maddirala (32:24)
I have a master's degree in computer science and I learned programming through different means. But I can look this up as a task. I think actually many people have been asking me, can you recommend resources for learning about AI, learning about programming? So.

Piyush (32:27)
I'm out.

Right. Yeah.

Maybe add it to the description or the.

This is one, the art and science of AI.

Nikhil Maddirala (32:48)
Yes, that's true. I mean, right now we're not, like, I'm not gonna be able to teach you if you know nothing about programming, like how to...

Piyush (32:53)
Right? Yeah. It's a good place to start.

Nikhil Maddirala (32:57)
is a good place to start. At least you can see what's possible and the kind of things you can do. And also these days with AI, it's really easy. If you know basic programming, you can just write something that's not good, pass it to the AI and say, hey, can you improve this code for me? Can you fix this for me? Can you fix that? So it's just, I think knowing a little bit of programming is gonna take you a long way in today's world. So I highly...

Piyush (33:19)
I've heard this term being thrown around before low code. Do you think that's the approach that we're taking? It's not no code exactly, but it's also not full on coding. So it's like somewhere in between. So low code.

Nikhil Maddirala (33:31)
Yeah, absolutely. I think we haven't gotten there yet, but through AI, I think that will be the future. And that's what I'm basically advocating for right now is that no enough programming that you can do basic stuff and then AI will help you with a lot of the complex things. So.

Okay, so you need to know some programming until no code platforms get better. And then where do you start? Like, so there are different ways. And in this case, we're going to use a programming language, Python, which is the most easy to use with different AI applications right now. And it's one of the easiest to learn for beginners. So that's what we'll talk about. And that's what I would recommend like people to learn.

So you need like a place for this program to run. A program requires access to a computer where it runs on the computer and uses compute processing and memory to actually perform its operations. So there are different ways you could.

run programs. The simplest is you could probably run it on your own computer if you have a laptop. But these days there are many cloud -based solutions where you can run the program on like Google's cloud or Microsoft's cloud and it's in many ways easier than setting it up on your own computer. That way actually it's true automation. It can even run when you're not on your computer. And this is a personal preference but I'm going to demonstrate a platform.

called Google Colab today which is a very simple platform where you can run simple snippets of Python code. This is good for just developing and brainstorming your initial ideas and getting it working and then once you have that set up then you have to find a place to host your application if you want to actually like run it in an automated way. So let's let me open my screen and let's just walk through a little bit of what

Piyush (35:29)
Are we doing a live demo?

Nikhil Maddirala (35:30)
Not like a live demo, I coded this up like before the call, so I'm just gonna walk through it. Maybe if there's interest in future, we can do a live demo of like how to actually code something like this. But so you just have to go to this website.

Piyush (35:36)
Cool.

Is this all free to set up if someone wants to replicate this? Would this be freely available to them?

Nikhil Maddirala (35:50)
Yes, Colab is free to set up. They have a pro plan, but all the stuff I'm demonstrating you can do for free. You don't need to pay for anything. sorry, I forgot. That's the one thing that you do need to pay for. So yeah, you need to have minimum of $5 of credits on there to be able to use it.

Piyush (35:57)
Really, including making the API calls to the AI?

How much would something like this cost? Let's say I have to build a research report for 10 clients. OK. But just to get an order of magnitude, is it in the tens of dollars, or the hundreds of dollars, or the thousands of dollars?

Nikhil Maddirala (36:13)
Let's talk about that at the end. We'll talk about like how much it would cost. So when you go to Colab

It's in cents, not dollars. That's the order of magnitude. Yeah. So it's just going to cost you like, yeah. I would say like for every company that you want to get this insight for, it might cost you one or two cents. That's like, yeah. And costs are only going down. They're not going up. So.

Piyush (36:28)
Okay. Okay.

Really? Yeah. Well, okay. Okay.

Nikhil Maddirala (36:44)
Yeah, this is not very expensive. Yeah, so this is an interface where you can write code So when you go here, you know, you can click on this thing It says welcome to Colab and it's just a place where yeah, they have some code snippets here This says seconds in a day and it's doing a simp

Piyush (36:44)
Okay, that's all I wanted to know. Okay, perfect.

Can you maybe zoom in? I remember I watched our last recording and I believe it's just for someone watching it on YouTube or Spotify, watching the video. It's just always better to have it. Yeah.

Nikhil Maddirala (37:10)
Yeah, sure. That's a good call.

So we're zoomed in a little bit. Here's an example of a code snippet. Like you define a variable called seconds in a day and you say this is like 24 times 60 times 60 and you can just press play here and it executes this code and it gives you this result. So it's just a simple environment. Like if you have to do this on your own computer, it's gonna require some more setup. You have to set up the Python package and then open up a command line and so it might be more complicated. So this.

Piyush (37:40)
I don't even know what all that is, but it sounds like it's a lot of work and you don't have to do any of that with this.

Nikhil Maddirala (37:44)
Exactly, this is pretty simple and it also has like AI generation features so you can click generate and so you can say something like write code to calculate the number of seconds in one year. Okay, let's see what it comes up with here.

Piyush (38:02)
Cool.

Nikhil Maddirala (38:04)
There, it just wrote that code for you. It defines seconds in a minute, minutes in an hour, hours in a day, days in a year, and seconds in a year. And I can just press Enter, and it gives me the number of seconds in a year. So that's why I'm saying it's pretty easy these days to get started with coding, because you have things like this.

Piyush (38:14)
Hmm.

Could you enter into this, write a code to create a scalable solution to do research for a company where I will provide you the name of the company and the research report should show these aspects of the company.

Nikhil Maddirala (38:37)
So yeah, actually that's where I got started, but it's not gonna produce code that works immediately. And because I think...

Piyush (38:41)
Yeah.

Right, right, right. And that's what you meant when you said that these no code applications aren't there yet.

Nikhil Maddirala (38:51)
Exactly, you still have to like debug it and figure out what the errors are and make it work and especially it's good at doing things with just standard Python code like if it understands the language but the minute your task involves connecting to some external APIs it doesn't have knowledge of those specific APIs and how to use them so I think in future like this will get better there will be like retrieval augmented generation systems where you know the like perplexity there will be

some coding version of that where it can have... I have, yeah, I think it's still not like that great at... yeah.

Piyush (39:23)
Yeah, Devin. Have you heard of Devin?

But that's the vision that they're going after, like this software engineer agent.

Nikhil Maddirala (39:37)
Right. Yeah, I think it'll get there. But I think essentially, you need to have some basic knowledge of the thing you're asking the AI to do. So if you're asking for a research report, you need to have some knowledge of that area of research. You cannot ask an AI assistant to do things that you yourself do not understand or that you can't comprehend the outputs of that's still pretty hard to do. So let's go into the setup for this. So we're going to

Piyush (40:00)
Yeah, got it.

Nikhil Maddirala (40:07)
to do two things. One is I created a page in Notion called Sales Insights. So where the goal is we have... so this is like a spreadsheet. Basically it's like Google Sheets but it's in this app called Notion. I personally like using Notion because I find it works better for me. Like it has a lot of...

good features and it has a pretty cool API also. So what we've done here is we created this database or spreadsheet and we provided some company names. Let's just imagine your clients are in the streaming industry and we have Netflix, Hulu and HBO Max and we have empty columns here for company info, which is like basic info about the company and then there's company insights, which is to give you key insights about the company.

company that you can talk about in your sales call and then I made another one called company insights TLDR which just gives you like a summary so that you can take a quick glance at this and the goal is to create a program so right now the workflow would be if you had this set up you would you know copy this and then you would go

Piyush (41:06)
nice. Nice, nice. Yeah.

Nikhil Maddirala (41:19)
paste it into a chat GPT and give it the prompt and say something like look I need you to go get this info and then you would copy and paste it back here so the goal is to yeah the goal is to automate that and like I said so I prepared this notebook here that does that it has some scripts in it and I'll walk us through some of this

Piyush (41:28)
Right. That's exactly what I do right now, but I have to repeat it every single time for every single company.

Dude, this all looks very scary already.

Nikhil Maddirala (41:45)
Yeah, but like the to be fair, like it can it's pretty like basic stuff and it can be done by just like asking the AI to do it as long as you have some knowledge of like how to do basic programming. So first you need to just like install some basic libraries that you need. So in this case, we're using the OpenAI API. So these are all libraries for working with APIs. So in this case, we're using two, OpenAI and Notion.

Okay? And then they have Python libraries, which defines code in Python for how to interact with that API. And that's what we're using. And then another thing you need to do is you need to provide your API keys. In this case, we need an API key for perplexity and for notion. Because in this case, perplexity is the application that we are using.

Piyush (42:39)
What are API keys?

Nikhil Maddirala (42:41)
So API key is like your password for using the application. So in this case, when I make a request to perplexity to process some data and do something for me, it costs money, right? So API key is like my password. In the UI, you have username and password. The API equivalent of that is API key. That's it. It's like your password.

Piyush (43:07)
because your API usage costs money, so you will need to protect that.

Nikhil Maddirala (43:12)
Exactly, and it's not just for money. Like it could be like, you know, once you log in, you have data about your

files or your environment and things like that. So yeah, the standard practice for working with API keys. So I could just type it in here, my API key, and if you're just practicing, you can do that. But since I don't want to show my API keys on this video call, and a good practice is that you load that into a separate file called the environment file, and you define these variables that are your notion key and your perplexity key, and then you can just call those.

So for the AI integration, we actually have to use the perplexity API because I tried this out with like open AI API and others and they don't have like web search built into it. And in your case, you need web search and the only one that's providing that right now is perplexity. So if you use the perplexity API, you can get the.

Piyush (44:14)
Even Google, Google doesn't have such an API, which does.

Nikhil Maddirala (44:17)
No, it doesn't. So with Google, you would have to string together two different APIs. You would have to do the search API to get the search results. And then you could pass those into the Gemini API, which does the AI stuff. But the middle step is still missing the crawling. And I think the reason companies are not offering this is because we talked about web crawling being like a little bit of a gray area. So probably Google doesn't want to take that risk of providing you an API where they're doing some

Piyush (44:29)
Mmm.

Right.

Nikhil Maddirala (44:47)
web crawling, whereas perplexity is and I'm able to use it right now but I don't know in future this may go away maybe you won't be able to do this and you have to kind of do it on your own. So...

Piyush (44:48)
on it.

Nikhil Maddirala (44:59)
We, anyway, in this case, what we have to do is first we define the prompt. So I just created these prompts. This is for getting the company info. It says your sales assistant, your users or sales executives who are preparing for sales conversations with client companies. Your role is to research the client companies to provide key information and insights to the sales executives.

Piyush (45:21)
That makes a lot of sense.

Nikhil Maddirala (45:22)
And in this case, we say research this company and provide key information, including company CEO and headquarters, products and services, revenue and growth and competitors. And this is just some boilerplate code that like passes these messages to the perplexity API. And then here we have to get the response. We specify what is the model we want to use. And there are some other parameters you can specify, like how many tokens, et cetera.

Piyush (45:49)
cool. So you can actually tell it that use this model within perplex and did you have a list of models you could choose from like.

Nikhil Maddirala (45:57)
Yes, I did. This was the only one where they have web search enabled. So the choice was pretty limited. If you just want to use a normal AI model, there's a lot of choice out there. I would probably default to using OpenAI. I wouldn't even use Perplexity.

Piyush (46:13)
So wait, but for Plexity when I use the UI, it gives me the ability to choose whichever model, including the most powerful and the one that I like, which is Cloud 3 Opus. But you're saying they limited the ability to choose or they restricted the models that you can choose when you make the API call?

Nikhil Maddirala (46:31)
Let's actually look this up. Let's see here. They have a list on their website of what models are supported. So I think so they have a list of all these. These are for the API. Yeah, you can only use open open source models. So they have.

Piyush (46:36)
maybe because I have Pro, that's why I

Nikhil Maddirala (46:50)
And these, the ones that say online, those are the only ones that you can use for doing web browsing. So I just picked the biggest one out of those. It's called Llama3 Sonar. I honestly don't know too much about how this like online LLM works. Yeah.

Piyush (46:55)
Interesting.

That doesn't matter for the purpose of our demo. I think I mean the model basically only interprets the what is in the prompt, right? And.

Nikhil Maddirala (47:13)
Yeah. So here's a test. I just ran a test where we gave the input as Netflix. And remember, this is still not hooked up to the notion or anything. This is just to test the output. And you can see here, right, this output that we're getting, it gave all the details of Netflix. Right.

Piyush (47:25)
Right, right.

wow. This is exactly what I do, dude. Like this is my process.

Nikhil Maddirala (47:36)
Okay, so yeah, now this is not anything cool because we've just followed the same process and we got this info here. So then these are some other prompts to get the other stuff we talked about, like this is the company insights, which we talked about getting online search trends for the company, for the company's competitors and the overall industry. So let's call this one. And then I also...

Piyush (47:42)
Right. Right.

Nikhil Maddirala (48:03)
asked for getting a TLDR of that. So I don't think this is super interesting. It's going to be the same as what we saw above. Yeah, see here it gives you the response. This is the summary. And now let's look at the Notion integration here. So we have to use the Notion API to connect to the...

Notion database the one that I have on the right side of the screen here. You have to pass in this thing called a database ID So this notion database it has an ID and we have to tell our program that you need to connect to that ID and then So first we define a simple company that says get a simple function that says get companies So it's just going to read this database and give us a list of what companies are there. So Let's test this one here

Piyush (48:48)
Mmm.

Right.

Nikhil Maddirala (48:56)
So it gave us this list. It says HBO Max, Netflix, and Hulu. And yeah, now we have another function that says update company info and what it does is it calls that AP.

Piyush (49:01)
So now you're just going to call that function for all of these.

Nikhil Maddirala (49:12)
perplexity API, that function we defined previously, and it puts that into the thing. And then we have a main function that strings all of these other functions together. So in programming, this is how it works. You have to define individual functions to do individual units of things. So I have a function to get the companies, and then I have a function to get the info for each company, and then write that in, and there's a function to update it.

So let me just call this here, run the final program. And so I've included some print statements. It shows like, OK, we're getting companies from the Notion database here. And then it's going to start inserting them one by one. Unfortunately, it's not super fast. There are probably ways to make this a lot faster. I haven't really thought about optimization. Maybe there are smaller models you can use or ways to optimize the prompt. But.

Piyush (50:08)
wow! Look what just happened!

Nikhil Maddirala (50:10)
Yeah, so now it's automatically populated this. Let's click on this HBO Max page and see what's here. So it gives you the company info, HBO Max is a streaming company, blah, blah, company CEO and headquarters, products and services, revenue. And then it gave us this insights thing.

Piyush (50:13)
Dude, this is like magic.

You just basically broke a cardinal rule of 20 years of Silicon Valley wisdom, which is never to do a live demo. And I think you put it off, man. This is awesome.

Nikhil Maddirala (50:36)
Well, it's a live demo of this thing working not of me coding it up. Yeah So Yeah, so these are the trends and then these are the TLDR insights so it just gives you a summary of like here are the two main things like rapid growth and content

Piyush (50:42)
Well, that's what I mean. No, like the things that go wrong are like these like Apple would invest so much money and then during the live demo it just doesn't work.

Nikhil Maddirala (51:00)
And yeah, anyway, you can see now it's filled that out for all the so if you open Netflix you have all the info there

Piyush (51:02)
wow.

This is insane. So nothing stops me from populating a list of not just three companies, but 30 or 3000 or 3 million, right? It's done. It's just a matter of how many cents I'm willing to pay. This is insane. Like I'm not thinking like we should be doing this in all sales processes, like, cause this is such a standard process for every sales.

Nikhil Maddirala (51:19)
Yeah.

Absolutely.

Yeah, you should automate this. And there are so many processes in people's life like this that could be automated. So, you know, I think I would encourage people to think, take this simple example. What did we do? We found a workflow that Piyush does, which is taking some companies and researching them and capturing the output of that research. And we automated that. What are some workflows like that in your life that you...

Piyush (51:38)
That could have, yeah.

Before we go into other workflows now, just because this is my world, right? I'm thinking now I'm also seeing the point you were making earlier on why having some programming knowledge can serve you as being very powerful is now I'm thinking not just creating this database, but we could just simply add another function which says, find out who the CMO is and create this email draft.

Nikhil Maddirala (52:10)
Yeah.

Mm -hmm.

Piyush (52:33)
addressing the CMO, use some of the insights that you have gleaned and tailor it to the product that you're selling. In my case, I sell Google Ads, but you could be someone from Salesforce who's selling CRM or any other enterprise company. And you can figure out who the right stakeholder is. Could be the CMO, the CFO, or like the chief growth officer, whatever, right? And then tailor an email for them. Because that, I mean, what I would do with this is I will now read these pages that you've created and then figure out.

Nikhil Maddirala (52:54)
Mm -hmm.

Piyush (53:02)
what my email would need to say, but we can go one level above that abstraction and make the AI do that even, right?

Nikhil Maddirala (53:08)
Yeah, absolutely. So I think that's the next step. Think about...

what are you doing with this information? What's the next step in your workflow? And think about how to automate that. So you could automate your end -to -end workflow. And essentially that changes your job from being the person who does all this work to being the manager of an AI that's doing this work. And what you're gonna be doing is just providing feedback to the AI on how it could do it better or making some final edits to the outputs that it's generated. So it could...

Piyush (53:39)
This is awesome. So I mean, now I'm thinking, because you asked that question, like what else we can do. So one way we can figure out is, and then this is for everyone who's listening to this podcast or watching this podcast is find out all of these repeated tasks that you do and figure out, like break down all of the different UI interfaces that you use and see if the API version of that exists. And if the API version of that exists, then you can just automate it. Basically that's, that's the answer, right? Wow.

Nikhil Maddirala (54:05)
Absolutely. But yeah, I think you have to first define what is the purpose of this, why you're doing this, and it should add some value. So think about ways to free up your time and ways to scale yourself more. So I think some examples, I wanted to go through another demo, but I think we'll skip that. The demo, another thing that I had built for myself was...

Piyush (54:12)
Hmm.

Nikhil Maddirala (54:31)
I'm really interested in personal knowledge management and I'm

fascinated by this idea of having a second brain that you can put in like, you know notes or something like that So I read and listen to a lot of interesting content throughout the day And I might watch some YouTube videos where I learned something interesting. I might read a book and then often what happens is I forget about this I'm like, yeah, I saw this video a while ago But I don't even remember what this was and there's no way for me to easily retrieve that information So I've been trying to create a personal knowledge management system

where I can capture that works as like a true second brain, where I can capture all information that's relevant to me, both my personal context and like sources of information that I'm consuming and create that in a useful way where I can have summaries of the information generated by AI.

and it can help me understand how this is connected to things I'm working on. So a simple thing that I just started with is like YouTube videos. I watch a lot of YouTube videos. I'm like, I learned a lot from this video and I wanna capture this information and there's no good way to do that. I mean, yeah, you could manually like create a node and type up everything you learned, but I made an automation where if I just save a YouTube video.

link then I have a program that will go and fetch the entire transcript of that video and all the information about the video and it will generate a summary of that and save it into my notes so that in future when I just want to quickly find well what was there in this topic what were the good YouTube videos I watched it'll find that for me.

Piyush (56:11)
That's a good use case. Yeah, I can see a lot of value in it. Yeah, you can go on and integrate other types of content sources, like some blog post that you read, or I don't know, some Reddit thread that you found. And just it'll be like one place where you have a good summary of all these interesting content sources that you discovered.

Nikhil Maddirala (56:24)
Yeah, absolutely.

And I think the companies are trying to integrate that to like Apple and Microsoft So we talked about how Microsoft created this thing called recall

which periodically tracks everything that's happening on your computer and stores it in some way so that you can just remember anything you did on your computer. So yeah, I think companies will be doing this more and more. Maybe there will be a version of like some glasses that you wear that are automatically capturing audio and video input that you're getting and that's gonna store it and then you can automatically get insights from that. We don't know what's coming.

Yeah, one last thing I wanted to do was, or two things. One is...

kind of brainstorming some other use cases, like trying to help people get started on like, well, what else is useful? Like now that you've seen some of the things that we're doing, what can you build if you had the power of AI, an AI assistant at your fingertips? And then lastly, I wanted to talk about like why you should do this and why it's important for you to learn. I came up with a couple of examples. I'm curious to hear what you think or if you have like other ideas. One was around personal,

productivity like say you get like emails email analysis like you if you get a lot of emails every day and you don't want to read all of them can you create an AI assistant that will read all your emails like automatically categorize them for you figure out which ones like are important for you to read and maybe even create like follow -up actions and tasks for you that that's one example.

Piyush (58:09)
Yeah, that's a great one. I imagine that something like this, if not already included in the popular email clients will someday come. But if that doesn't already exist, I think, yeah, that would be great. It's just to help me summarize. You got 400 emails last week. Here's a quick summary of the most important ones, like quick TLDR or something like that. Help you manage your inbox better.

Nikhil Maddirala (58:34)
Yeah.

Well, I think you raised a great point, which is that these AI workflows are going to be built into the apps, the popular apps you use for these things already. So like why build your own workflow, right? And.

Piyush (58:47)
Yeah.

Well, no, I mean, having said that, like the one that we just built with the sales process is such a nuanced thing that who's going to build this? Maybe some CRM solution will build it. Yeah.

Nikhil Maddirala (58:55)
Mm -hmm.

Salesforce, I'm sure they're planning to build like the sales companies. Yeah.

Piyush (59:04)
Yeah, that's what I like some CRM solution. But again, the, this like, there's some nuance into the system prompt that we built in, right? Like what, so I think that will at least need to be informed by you. And why actually now I'm thinking like this thing that we build, if it doesn't already exist, like this is a great product that you just build. Like it's fully ready. It was like magic. Like you should sell this idea to Salesforce.

Nikhil Maddirala (59:12)
Yes.

Hmm.

I guess like yeah sometimes I have trouble figuring out what is obvious versus non -obvious like to me this is just something so obvious I'm like well it's not useful like

Piyush (59:40)
You'd be surprised how many things that are obvious to us or obvious to very smart people are actually not that obvious to everyone else. In fact, it's funny. So people would have noticed that I'm sitting in like a very, very busy, not very nicely organized garage. And my wife and I were watching our previous episode and she's like, can we, can you like, can we do something about your background? And unfortunately I use a Chromebook, so there's no way to do a virtual background. But I was joking with her is, you know,

Nikhil Maddirala (59:57)
Hehehe.

Piyush (1:00:09)
So many amazing things have started in Silicon Valley home garages. So maybe what Nikhil and I have started here in a Silicon Valley home garage will turn out to be a big thing. In fact, this actually motivated me to move into a bigger house. So we'll be doing that next month. So hopefully, I apologize for the distraction of the very horribly organized garage. But maybe this will be a story. And maybe a sales assistant will come out of it, or maybe something bigger. So.

Nikhil Maddirala (1:00:15)
Hehehe

Yeah, well that's awesome. I think that's pretty much everything we wanted to cover today. Was there anything else you wanted to talk about?

Piyush (1:00:40)
You

Awesome dude, like I'm gonna, by the way, how do I start using this? Like, can you share that notion with me? And if I, and obviously I will like figure out a way so that it uses my API key or something. Can we make it even more elegant for me to start using it?

Nikhil Maddirala (1:01:00)
Mm -hmm.

Okay, so that's that's the next step so this is When you were developing a program there are two steps first is called development, which is what?

I was doing just now is developing and testing it. And then the second step is to actually put this in production. That's the terminology we use in the software world. It's called development and then production. Development is where you're building and testing it. That's what we did. Now to get it in production, to get other users to be able to use this, you need to host this application somewhere. So where is this Python code going to run? And it can't be on my computer.

So you need something called a server and you have to host this on a server Where other people can like log into that server and use it and these days it's actually pretty simple most of the cloud computing companies provide Simple to use like servers and there are also fancy things like serverless functions and things But yeah for you for sure we can talk about it after this podcast. We'll find a way to

host this application so that you can start using it and if you want to play around with it, you could.

Piyush (1:02:13)
No, I know so many of my colleagues and coworkers who'd be amazed that we can do this at scale and they would want to use this. So.

Nikhil Maddirala (1:02:19)
Okay. Actually, that's really cool. So let's do this. As a next step, I'll do this. I'll make this as an actual production application that other people can use and customize their prompts for this. And then you go and share this with your colleagues and why don't you give me some feedback and then we can think about how to improve it. So we're like building something in public here.

Piyush (1:02:43)
That would be awesome. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I mean, this just organically came out and this is so amazing. And I know for a fact that this is going to dramatically improve my productivity and improve my sales process and will do so for a lot of my coworkers. And I can imagine that this would be true for a lot of sales folks, right? So as long as they had the ability to change the nuance of what that research should be, I think this is going to be benefit to everyone.

Nikhil Maddirala (1:03:12)
Okay, I guess my request for the audience is if you can think of something in your life that you want to see automated, send us that request and maybe we'll build something. I'm just curious to learn what are the different things people want to use it for and I'm happy to try building something. So yeah, please reach out to us and let us know what kind of things you'd like to see, what other topics you'd like us to cover.

Piyush (1:03:12)
That sounds like a great plan.

Nikhil Maddirala (1:03:39)
And yeah, and last request is please make sure to give this podcast like a rating or review wherever you're listening to it. If you're listening to it, that would really help us a lot. And yeah, thank you.

Piyush (1:03:51)
Well said, I think that's a great note to end on. All right, Nikhil, thank you so much. This was again an amazing, mind -blowing, insightful conversation.

Nikhil Maddirala (1:03:54)
All right.

Alright, we'll see everyone in the next episode.

